# Swapping E-Commerce Platforms
::subheader
Learn how to switch your e-commerce platform integration with the Alokai Storefront and Unified Data Layer
::

Alokai Storefront is primarily an e-commerce accelerator built on top of the Alokai Connect technology. It's designed to help you either switch e-commerce platforms or to develop storefronts for multiple platforms simultaneously.

This guide will walk you through the steps required to switch your e-commerce platform integration with the Alokai Storefront.

## Overview

By using the Unified Data Layer and normalized data structures, you can switch your e-commerce platform integration without having to overhaul your frontend application. 

Instead of using platform-specific data and methods for fetching, creating, and updating data, the Unified Data Layer provides a consistent API for all e-commerce platforms.

This means, that you can change the underlying e-commerce backend without making significant changes to your frontend code.

:::tip Alokai Connect

If you are not familiar with Alokai Connect, consider learning more in the [Vue Storefont Connect documentation](https://docs.alokai.com/).
:::

## Step-by-Step Guide to Switching Platforms


### 1. Update Middleware Configuration

Navigate to the `apps/storefront-middleware/middleware.config.ts` file.

**a.** Replace the import statements to use the Unified API for your new e-commerce platform. 

```diff
- import { Context, Config, methods, normalizers } from "@vsf-enterprise/unified-api-sapcc";
+ import { Context, methods, normalizers } from "@vsf-enterprise/unified-api-commercetools";
```

**b.** Modify the value of the INTEGRATION variable in `env.ts`:

```diff
- const INTEGRATION = "sapcc" satisfies UnifiedStorefrontIntegration;
+ const INTEGRATION = "commercetools" satisfies UnifiedStorefrontIntegration;
```

**c.** (Optionally) Adjust the unified API extension configuration:

If your prior integration (like SAP commerce cloud) used a specific methods to perform tasks like transforming image URLs or filtering facets, you may need to remove or adjust these configurations in the `middleware.config.ts` file.

```diff
- export const unifiedApiExtension = createUnifiedExtension<Context, Config>()({
+ export const unifiedApiExtension = createUnifiedExtension<Context, Config>()({
  normalizers,
  apiMethods: {
    ...mockMethods,
    ...methods<typeof normalizers>(),
  },
  config: {
-   transformImageUrl: (url) => {
-     // fn implementation, skipped for readability
-   },
    currencies: ["USD", "EUR"],
    defaultCurrency: "USD",
  },
});
```

:::info

`mockMethods` will be used as a fallback, when a method is not available for given integration. `mockMethods` implement all the same Unified Methods as the `methods` object, but they return mocked data. Whenever the e-commerce integration doesn't provide a specific method, the `mockMethods` will be used instead.
:::

### 2. Validate the Integration

After making the necessary changes to your configuration, it's essential to verify that the Alokai Storefront communicates correctly with the new e-commerce backend.

- Restart application with `yarn dev` command and check if there are no errors.

Ensure that:

::list{type="success"}
- All API requests are correctly directed to the new backend
- Data normalization is functioning as expected
- The frontend correctly displays data from the new backend
::

### 3. Review and Update Alokai Storefront Features

Different e-commerce backends might offer various features. Ensure you review any custom functionality or features specific to your previous backend and adapt or remove them as necessary for the new platform.
